---
title: "SmartPhone Data Code Book"
author: "siva"
date: "08/24/2014"
output: html_document
---

This code book explains the environment and set of steps used to analyse data generated by smartphones in response to human activity. The tasks performed were to:

1. Combine test and training data sets.
2. Provide human readable names to the observations in the data set created in step 1.
3. Isolate just the observations pertaining to means and standard deviations of raw observations.
4. Calculate the mean of all the variables isolated in step 3, grouped by test subject and activity.


The files under ```Inertial Signals``` are strictly not necessary. Similarly ```features_info.txt``` and ```README.txt``` are not used by the script.

```X_*.txt``` files contain test and training measurements. Each row of the file contains all observations of a single instance of a subject performing an activity.
```y_*.txt``` files contain the activities that generated the measurements.
```subject_*.txt` contain identifiers for the subjects that generated the measurements.

```activity_labels.txt``` maps an activity code to an explanatory text string.
```features.txt``` provides column descriptions for the

The run_analysis function 
1. reads in 
  + The X datasets 
  + The y data sets which contain the activities.
  + The subject data
  + the activities to activity codes map
  + the feature names
2. Maps each entry in the y data set to a corresponding activity name for both the test and training data sets
3. Attaches subject and activity data to the X datasets for both the test and training data sets
3. Adds feature names to the test and training data set.
4. Merges the test and training data sets using rbind
5. Extracts all observations in the merged data set that are related to mean and standard deviation calculations
6. Calculates the mean of all the observations grouped by subject id and activity name.
7 Writes the output to a file identified by the second parameter to the function call.

The fields in the output file are listed below.
These 2 fields are control fields in that they identify the test subject and the activity performed.
- Subject 
- Activity 

The following fields are derived by taking the average of each observation for a given test subject and all iterations of a specific activity performed by that subject.

- tBodyAcc-mean-X 
- tBodyAcc-mean-Y
- tBodyAcc-mean-Z
- tBodyAcc-std-X
- tBodyAcc-std-Y
- tBodyAcc-std-Z
- tGravityAcc-mean-X
- tGravityAcc-mean-Y
- tGravityAcc-mean-Z
- tGravityAcc-std-X
- tGravityAcc-std-Y
- tGravityAcc-std-Z
- tBodyAccJerk-mean-X
- tBodyAccJerk-mean-Y
- tBodyAccJerk-mean-Z
- tBodyAccJerk-std-X
- tBodyAccJerk-std-Y
- tBodyAccJerk-std-Z
- tBodyGyro-mean-X
- tBodyGyro-mean-Y
- tBodyGyro-mean-Z
- tBodyGyro-std-X
- tBodyGyro-std-Y
- tBodyGyro-std-Z
- tBodyGyroJerk-mean-X
- tBodyGyroJerk-mean-Y
- tBodyGyroJerk-mean-Z
- tBodyGyroJerk-std-X
- tBodyGyroJerk-std-Y
- tBodyGyroJerk-std-Z
- tBodyAccMag-mean
- tBodyAccMag-std
- tGravityAccMag-mean
- tGravityAccMag-std
- tBodyAccJerkMag-mean
- tBodyAccJerkMag-std
- tBodyGyroMag-mean
- tBodyGyroMag-std
- tBodyGyroJerkMag-mean
- tBodyGyroJerkMag-std
- fBodyAcc-mean-X
- fBodyAcc-mean-Y
- fBodyAcc-mean-Z
- fBodyAcc-std-X
- fBodyAcc-std-Y
- fBodyAcc-std-Z
- fBodyAcc-meanFreq-X
- fBodyAcc-meanFreq-Y
- fBodyAcc-meanFreq-Z
- fBodyAccJerk-mean-X
- fBodyAccJerk-mean-Y
- fBodyAccJerk-mean-Z
- fBodyAccJerk-std-X
- fBodyAccJerk-std-Y
- fBodyAccJerk-std-Z
- fBodyAccJerk-meanFreq-X
- fBodyAccJerk-meanFreq-Y
- fBodyAccJerk-meanFreq-Z
- fBodyGyro-mean-X
- fBodyGyro-mean-Y
- fBodyGyro-mean-Z
- fBodyGyro-std-X
- fBodyGyro-std-Y
- fBodyGyro-std-Z
- fBodyGyro-meanFreq-X
- fBodyGyro-meanFreq-Y
- fBodyGyro-meanFreq-Z
- fBodyAccMag-mean
- fBodyAccMag-std
- fBodyAccMag-meanFreq
- fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-mean
- fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-std
- fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-meanFreq
- fBodyBodyGyroMag-mean
- fBodyBodyGyroMag-std
- fBodyBodyGyroMag-meanFreq
- fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-mean
- fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-std
- fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-meanFreq

The script uses the **stringr** and **stats** packages. 

